Understanding the concept of business
culture, the types of cultures,
etc., is something absolutely
basic that helps us understand
any organization and, in addition,
when we manage one, helps us
create an organization that
is appropriate to our goals.
What is culture?
Culture is hard
to define.
We could describe it as the DNA of the
company.
But you will understand it better
if I tell you that culture depends
on, imagine yourself, the vision
and mission, the values, how
you manage people, whether you
give them more autonomy
or less, your leadership style,
how you have structured
yourself, how your offices
are, where your offices
are, etc.
This is all about the culture
you are creating.
So what we saw that was very interesting
is what the types of culture
are and we saw it with a matrix
in which we classified
all organizations
based on two variables
and this is very good.
From now on, think of organizations
always in this way, classifying
them like this.
On the one hand, we can analyze what
the degree of autonomy is, that
is, whether we are giving more
or less freedom to employees.
There are organizations where there
is very little autonomy, everything
is very procedurally, very
standardized, etc.
And there are others where it is
not so, where employees have more
autonomy to innovate and more.
This is on the vertical axis.
And if we go to the horizontal
axis, we can rank
organizations according to
their focus on results.
You can, imagine, get
something, increase sales,
or revolutionize a
market, etc.
They are focused on internal issues.
What are the internal issues?
In the processes, in the
processes, etc.
As I said, this classification is very
good because it helps us to position
companies, it helps us to understand
them well.
So, from these two dimensions,
what we have is four
cultures.
The first is the clone.
They are cultures, organizations that
are very focused on taking care of their
employees.
What they think is that if they have
happy employees, that's going to be
passed on to their customers.
We always take the example of the UFO.
They are usually very flat organizations,
where communication is
greatly encouraged, etc.
We have cultures that are hierarchical.
They are companies that are very
focused on processes, which
is all very standardized.
They are usually very vertical.
The most obvious example is the army.
But we can also think, imagine,
in a company like McDonald's.
McDonald's is growing globally
with all the processes within
each of the super-standardized stores.
Everything is very processed.
We have market organizations.
In this case we are talking
about organizations in which
everything is also very well-
proceded, but in this case
they focus on results, sales,
growth, etc.
I would say that here almost
all the classic life-long companies,
with strong commercial
structures, enter.
Imagine yourself from Coca-Cola
or a pharmaceutical lab or a software
manufacturer.
We would see thousands of cases.
And financial institutions too.
They are focused on goals,
on growth.
All organizations focus
on that.
And finally we have the great
current trend, which are the
adocratic cultures.
Everyone wants to be an adocratic
organization.
We are talking about flexible,
but highly result-centric organizations.
The focus is external.
In this case, it is not so much
sales, but we are talking
about achieving great things,
ambitious goals, etc.
These are usually very ambitious
companies that hire very good,
quite expensive people, give
them a lot of freedom,
work on projects, are often demanding
organizations, etc.
I think the clearest examples
could be companies like Facebook
or like the American startups.
By pure general culture you should
already know how organizations are structured.
Per we could make a prior classification
between organizations that
are more flat or more horizontal
and those that are more
vertical.
But actually the four main
types of organizational structures
are functional, by division,
matricial and by project.
Functional organizations, the first
type of organizations, are organizations
that are structured by
functions, marketing,
sales, operations, finance,
etc.
What is happening with this?
That very poor communication
between the different functions
or departments is generated and the
outfocus is bestial.
They are very little focused on results.
Then the divisions were created.
We are talking about divisions
by a business line or by a
customer segment.
They are structures that
are more oriented towards customers
or results, etc.
That is the big advantage.
Returning these two are the matrices
that we do is combine the
best of the two approaches.
You have a matrix in which you
structure your organization by functions
and by divisions.
The current trend is to
structure companies by projects.
It is as if you are creating, within
your structure or your company, mini-
businesses that are made up of teams
that are multidisciplinary,
made up of people of various
functions and that are attempted
to have the greatest possible
autonomy.
This is usually done in the most
leading organizations, which
are adocratic cultures.
In addition, these teams often apply agile
methodologies for the management of
those projects.
The system in which companies
have been supported since the
1950s to manage their employees,
evaluate them, etc., is called
performance management
system, goal management system.
But this is pretty overdue, especially
in the most innovative companies,
that what is now used are
the OKRs, key goals and
results.
It is used by Google, the American
startups, the most cutting-edge Spanish
startups, etc.
It's a very simple
system, but it works
very well.
Let us explain how it is.
OKR, as I said, is
key goals and results.
First, set goals.
You have to set goals that
have to be challenging,
delightful, launch a new product
that becomes the market
leader.
What is defined are
key results.
There are 3 to 5 key outcomes
related to this goal.
Key results are indicators
that tell us whether we are
on the right track or not
to that goal.
The objective is not quantifiable
and the key results yes.
By the way, key results
have to be difficult to.
Not impossible, not a madness, but
they have to be tough challengers.
The OKRs, this we have seen,
key goals and outcomes, are
defined in 3 levels primarily.
At the level of the entire organization,
with strategic goals, we could
do it by teams and we could
do it for each of the
people.
All this is done in cascade.
What are the advantages of all this?
What is it useful for?
Why is it so good even though
it is so simple?
It serves us to direct all the efforts
of the entire organization towards
the strategic goals.
This is very important because
there is usually a lot of disruption
in companies.
There are a lot of people doing things,
but they don't really know themselves
or are not oriented to what
really matters.
OKRs help us always focus on
what is important every week.
Then it serves for each member of
the team, each person, to always
keep in mind what is important,
their goals, their key results,
and avoid the fact that they
go to the office and do things
to do, do tasks, which as I
said always generates disallocation.
In addition, it increases
motivation very much, because
as you know, how your work is
contributing to the company's strategic
goals, you feel more connected,
than when you don't know
very well why you do what
you do.
It also provides a lot of transparency
throughout the organization and improves
communication, etc.
Because everyone knows the OKR
of the rest.
This is not like the performance
management system in which your
manager sets you goals and
that nobody knows.
No, this is a completely
transparent issue.
Everyone has to know what the CEO'
s OKR is, those of the organization,
those of their team, theirs,
how they are contributing,
etc.
AGL is a philosophy under which many
tools, many methodologies, such
as Lean Startup, which you already
know, or as Scrum, or as Kanban,
or as DesignThinking, are englobed.
There are really a lot.
It is like a toolbox that is born
to give a response or to help
us manage companies in the
current environment, in the current
situation.
What do I mean by this?
It is important to remember that traditional
management is born in a different
environment.
It came from a different time
when uncertainty was less.
It helps us manage in uncertain
environments.
What do I mean by little uncertainty?
You basically know what will
happen from your actions.
In contrast, the world is increasingly
dynamic, there is more risk, everything
changes faster, and in addition,
companies have the permanent
need to innovate to be competitive.
And already when you innovate,
the uncertainty is huge, because you
don't know what's going to happen.
From this, Agile is
born.
And that's why Agile methodologies
help us to deal with environments
of great uncertainty.
With a different approach, with a different
set of values.
So what we've seen in The
Power MBA is how to use Agile
to manage projects.
We have developed the Scrum methodology.
And we saw that there are a number
of principles that can help us a lot.
And basically they are very easy to understand.
What we will do is not give for granted
that we know what the final scope
of the project is.
You imagine, I don't know, what do
you want to ride?
I don't know, I don't know,
a website.
Well, because we will not plan a
whole long-term project, starting
from the fact that we want the
website to finally be like that.
We will not do this, we will not
give the scope for granted.
We will work in very
short cycles.
We'll work in very short cycles
with small ranges, this is called
Sprints.
Instead of a very long project,
we work on small sprints.
Why is?
Because when working on small Sprints,
making permanent checkpoints,
what we do is always identify
as soon as possible whether
we are on the right track or not.
This allows us to quickly identify
if we are mistaken.
And as we start from the premise
that in very many cases we will be
wrong, because it is so in environments
of high uncertainty, well, because
what we do is identify
quickly that we have been wrong.
Then we pivot, modify, etc.
Another thing we learned is that
we will create multidisciplinary
teams that are made up
of people from all functions.
It's basically like you're creating
a mini-company, because they
have to be totally autonomous.